This repository demonstrate API test framework based on Cucumber (v 7.0.0) BDD API framework using Maven with Rest Assured Java. 
It generate log file and cucumber report at after completion of test execution.
Application considered for demonstration is https://petstore3.swagger.io/

### Installation (pre-requisites)

1. JDK 1.9+ (make sure Java class path is set)
2. Maven (make sure .m2 class path is set)
3. Eclipse
4. Eclipse Plugins for
    - Maven
    - Cucumber
5. Maven dependencies
    - Maven surfire
    - Cucumber-java
    - Cucumber-junit
    - Cucumber reporting
    - Rest assured
    - slf4j
    - log4j


### Framework set up

Fork / Clone repository from [here]( https://github.com/amiya-pattnaik/selenium-cucumber-java) or download zip and set
it up in your local workspace.
- In Eclipse-> import-> existing maven project
- Run time JRE is set to Java 9+

### Setting-up test runner class as per test requirement

- Existing test runner setup will run all the feature files under src/test/java/features/ tagged as @SmokeTest
- To run specific feature file e.g. Pet.feature, set features path to src/test/java/features/Pet.feature
- Available tags are @RegressionTest @SmokeTest @EndtoendTest
- Feature should have value src/test/java/features/ when @EndtoendTest tag is used


### Run test-runner class using mvn command from command line

Navigate to the project directory. Run command line from the directory. Type`mvn clean test` command to run test-runner file.
With this command it will start executing feature files specified under test runner file

- To run test-runner file, use command 'mvn clean test'

### Run test-runner class directly from eclipse

- Open project workspace in Eclipse
- Right-click on root Project, select Run As->Maven Test

### Run test-runner class directly from eclipse

-From eclipse, navigate to path \src\test\java\cucumber\Options\TestRunner.java and open java file TestRunner.java 
- Right-click on TestRunner.java, select Run As->JUnit Test
  `

### Reporter

Once tests are executed, on the console or command propmt user gets link to view the report generated by cucumber.
Paste the url on the browser


The example below is a report generated after executing smoke tests
https://reports.cucumber.io/reports/dfca9502-44c9-4799-bb07-5df19de81593


### Develop automation scripts using BDD approach -Cucumber- Rest Assured Java

There are one StepDefinition file which is packaged under `src/test/java/stepDefinitions/PetStoreStepDef.java`. 

Tests are written in the Cucumber framework using the Gherkin Syntax.

```
@SmokeTest @RegressionTest 
Scenario: As a user I want to add new pet to the store with status Available
Given Pet payload with petname "<petname>", pet id "<petid>" and status "Available"
When User makes "POST" request to "create" pet id "<petid>" in the store
Then Status code returned is "200"

Examples: 
|petname|petid|
|Boggy|10|

```

### Project Structure of a Cucumber BDD API framework using Maven with Rest Assured Java
Maven for cucumber provides two folder to logically place the file

a. src/main/java - As this is small project, have left this empty. Usually user can store re-usable methods, pojo classes.

b. src/test/java 
   1. cucumber.Options package: Contains test runner java class
   2. environments package: Contains properties files to store url's and testdata paths
   3. feature package: Contains feature files divided by modules
   4. stepDefinitions package: Contains stepDefinition and hooks
   5. TestData package: Contains payload files in json format separated by modules
   6. utilities package: Contains various classes used in test classes 
      - AssertionConstants class: All constant are stored in this class instead of passing hardcoded values
      - Base class: Used for initializing properties files
      - ConversionUtility class: Contains reusable methods related to file conversions
      - FileUtils class: Method to read file
      - JsonUtils class: Method to extract values from API response
      - RequestFilter class: Methods to filter request specification
      - RestAssuredUtils class: Methods to perform API requests
   7. log4j.properties file: Properties of logging is defined. All classes are logged with INFO and ERROR level.
   8. logs folder: logs.log file is created once the test execution is complete
  

### Licensing
This project is licensed under the terms of the MIT license.